In the last lecture, I gave you the introduction of using
least privilege users in containers.
That's fancy words for saying we're swapping out the root
user for the built-in Node user that's not enabled
by default. I want to show you some of the things you'll
be dealing with when you do that.
When you enable that user, it affects pretty
much everything that you're going to be dealing with.
Particularly file and directory permissions,
particularly for write permissions because by default,
when you do everything in a Dockerfile, it's going to put
stuff in there as root, and root has access to everything.
It can read, write, everything. But once you start running
as Node user, weird little things can crop
up that you didn't have to worry about before.
Couple of those things would include write permissions in
the directories in the container in case your Node app
expects to have write permissions.
It might be harder for you to do npm installs.
You might get access denied on occasions because of certain
permission setups.
Then when you bind mount for local development, especially
if you're on Mac or Windows, those bind mounts might show
up as root as well.
Then that's a problem because your Node user can't
do anything on those folders with permissions
for root only.
Here's a couple of tips that will help you get through all
that. First, it would definitely help you to brush up
on your Linux file and directory permissions.
Specifically, the chown and chmod commands
because you'll be using those to solve some of these
problems. There are also Docker commands
that will help us along the way.
First, I had this happy sample app here.
I'm in the user node directory,
if you're following along in the course repo.
In here, I have a Dockerfile.
Let me just pull that up.
This is fairly standard.
This was a very basic example because
even the basic examples, when it comes to permissions, are
going to have roughly the same issues as you would in a
more complicated example.
Normally, I could just go in here and I would pick a line
and say, well let's do it down here.
Let's do it at the very bottom. User node.
If I do that, that means that any
commands after that that are one of the three.
There's the run command, the entry point and the cmd.
If any of those three come after this line, they will
be using the Node user to execute those things instead
of the root user. But everything else will still
be acting as root.
That can be a little bit confusing especially if you're not
used to those three. Make sure you remember that those
three are the limit. Those are the only ones that will work
as a Node user.
If I exit this,
and I do a docker build, I'll just call
this user node.
Everything works fine. In fact, my Node app will
run because everything in there
has read access, by default.
But if I go check out the permissions in there with a
docker exec here, I can see that everything
is not like I would expect it.
If I do a docker run
into that user node,
and get bash. If I do a ls
al in here, you'll see that everything has the label root.
If I go up a directory.
Because I'm setting the Node modules in a directory higher,
you'll notice that that's also root as well.
This means that my app will run and it
will work as the Node user, but if it expects to write
anything anywhere in these file paths, it's going to have a
problem. If I try to do npm install while
doing local development as the Node user, this
will have a problem because I won't have any write
permissions.
Let's back out.
If I jump back into that Dockerfile,
you might be tempted to take this user directive and move
it all the way up. Just move it all the way to the very
top. That way, everything is consistent.
Let's try that one. Do a build again.
You'll see that I actually had a build failure.
This build failure was because npm install
didn't have the permissions it needed on the directory
because all those directories were created as
root. Remember the workdir command is not one of the three.
So, workdir is going to create the directory as root
unfortunately. And then npm install doesn't have any
permissions to do anything.
One of the ways I get around that is with the example in
the last lecture. I manually create directories, then I
manually assign permissions as root.
Then after that, I change to the user node.
Let's try that.
I'm going to move this down to where I need it to be,
right before the run command.
Then right above it, I can add another run command
to do a mkdir on the app directory that I'll need later.
Then I'm going to change the owner recursively
in this directory and then any directories below it to
node, group node.
So, it will be user node, group node.
The reason I'm putting this here is because if
I tried to do it all in one line, with this run below
it and I try to be optimized with it, the problem
there is that it will be acting, and that run line on line
10, as the user node, which doesn't
have permissions to create directories.
So, then that mkdir will fail, and you can see the problem.
There's a little bit of an ordering problem here and
basically this will work.
I make the directory, change the permissions.
I then change to user node and then I can run
my npm stuff as that user.
Let's try one last time.
Great. We built successfully and if we run it, it should
be fine for the simple app that doesn't really need a lot
of special permissions. Of course, your apps may be
different. You may be doing user uploads, or
reading and writing files in various places, so make sure
you do the chown on those as well.
The next thing is you need to make sure that when you copy
in files, that they're also the user node,
just case that's what Node expects.
A lot of apps with Node, in particular, it won't have that
problem. That's not true of all apps, and so this is sort
of a standard that I adhere to even though it maybe isn't
required with your particular app.
I'll jump back in that Dockerfile and on
this copy line, I will add in the chown
node node like so.
That will behave as you would expect.
You also might do that same thing on the copy line for the
package JSON.
It kind of just depends on your development workflow and
whether you're going to need to edit those files in the
container later on.
But, even if you have problems with that later
with Docker Compose, luckily Docker Compose to the rescue.
You can do Docker Compose exec commands
as specific users.
Like I said before, by default, once you've changed
the user to Node, any exec commands
after you start the containers will also be Node.
Simply doing a -u root here
will get you into the container as root in case need to do
something like a package manager command or an npm
install globally.
Hopefully that will get you through the majority of least
privilege user problems that you might experience.
And I hope you stick with it even if you hit permissions
roadblocks because every problem that I've experienced is
solvable through changing permissions and working with
Docker commands.
I really do think it's a great practice to always have
your images using the Node user.